As the survivors of the devastating Cape storm settle in their homes after the mother of all storm tore through the city destroying properties worth millions, Black First Land First (BLF) Andile Mngxitama blames the white for the disaster. In an opinion piece written by the BLF leader Andile Mngxitama stated that White-owned monopoly capital is to blame for the storm that raged across the Western Cape this week.Mngxitama went further to note that the tragedy that befell the people of Western Cape were a direct product of global capitalism caused by the white monopoly capital. It may strike many as an outlandish claim that the Cape Storms are a direct product of global capitalism and its local representatives we know as white monopoly capital, Truth is for the last 500 years or so, capitalists have not just destroyed people through the long holocaust of the cross-Atlantic slavery where they came and captured people as if we were animals to enslave. At the same time for profits, the same evil forces assaulted nature. What we see today is the ecological costs of capitalism and racism, said Mngxitama. Read Also: #GuptaLeaks: The Guptas Are Not Just Corrupt, They Are Racists The BLF leader who was implicated in one of the leaked Gupta emails, for allegedly requesting for funding from the family-owned Oakbay CEO Nazeem Howa, blamed the White race capitalist for the nature disaster.The BLF is known for their strong support for the Guptas as a way of portraying a race-based comradeship. In response to a request for comment earlier this week, Mngxitama wrote: BLF supports any black person who is under attack from whites and in his new opinion over the weather situation in Cape Town, the party leader seemed convinced that the white South African were to be blamed for the lives of thousands of South Africans who were now displaced. The violent West had no sense of tomorrow, When we lost the battle against slavery, colonialism and in (South Africa) SA apartheid, it meant loss of capacity to protect the ecosystem.Those who captured us also captured nature. Those who assaulted us also assaulted nature. The circles of floods and droughts are the direct outcomes of the assault. Mother nature can t breath. We can t breath. Africa pays the highest ecological cost for the pollution of earth caused by whites. We haven t stopped paying for their demented good life. There are no more natural disasters. We only have white made disasters. The occurrence of any natural phenomenon today from droughts to earthquakes are the direct creation of white hands. The storm, the worst of its kind in three decades started on Tuesday and Wednesday.It fanned fires and forced evacuations of some residents who were already having to cope with the region s worst drought in a century. At least eight people have been killed and thousands displaced so far, according to the disaster management officials.The victims included four people who died in a fire caused by lightning, three who died in another fire and one who was killed when a home collapsed. Reporting this cases, Al Jazeera s Malcolm Webb, reporting from Cape Town, said the problem isn t simply because of the weather, but also because of the poor state of housing of so many people living in the area .But the BLF leader Mngxitama said the natural occurrences were anti-black and racist constructs The Cape Storms are the creation of global and local capitalist forces. It s racist to the core. The body bags will show a disproportionate racialized impact. The Cape Storms are going to kill black people. Why? Because colonialism and apartheid have placed blacks in harm s way in order to provide protection to whites. he said.The leader also blamed the troubled Western Cape Premier Helen Zille for the disaster saying she must be held responsible for the deaths of the victims. The deaths must be placed at the doorsteps of families like the Oppenheimers and the Ruperts with their political arm the Democratic Alliance.Helen Zille must account for more than the denial of colonialism. Read Also: Knysna Disaster: I Never Said It s Not My Concern Zuma He ended his opinion by saying that South Africans will soon come to terms with the truth about the havocs created by the whites. Once you have seen black, you can see the very contours of white power and the depths of its evil logic and designs. When the black calculus is done the truth shall lay bare like an uprooted tree trunk after the devilish Cape Storms unleashed by evil white forces in search of more to take. More to eat. They have eaten earth dead! he ended saying.Read more: https://buzzsouthafrica.com/cape-storms-fault-white-monopoly-capital-mngxitama/