The wife of a police inspector was found dead at their Vakola residence in suburban Santa Cruz in Mumbai today.The incident took place on Tuesday night in Prabhat Colony and the victim has been identified as Deepali Ganore.She was the wife of police inspector Dnyaneshwar Ganore, who was part of the team probing the sensational Sheena Bora murder case.The high-profile Sheena Bora murder case was registered at the Khar police station. Ganore was one of the investigating officers in the case and also headed the team which arrested prime accused Indrani Mukerjea.BRUTAL MURDERWhen Ganore returned to his Prabhat Colony house from work early today he found the door locked from outside and keys were kept in the shoe rack.&#8220;Ganore thought that his son and wife might have gone for late night movie show which ends at 2 am. He tried calling them several times but there was no response. He went to watchman&#8217;s cabin and stayed there till 2am,&#8221; police said.The officer further added, &#8220;At 2 am when Ganore went to his house again and found keys near a shoerack. When he opened the door, Ganore found his son&#8217;s mobile phone and wife Deepali lying in a pool of blood with her throat slit.&#8221;Ganore called the police control room immediately. She was taken to a nearby hospital where doctors declared her dead.According to sources, Ganore spoke to his wife on phone on Tuesday morning around 11 am. In the evening he called his son and wife to inform them that he is going for dinner with his relative and won&#8217;t have food at home. However, no one answered his call.SON PRIME SUSPECTThe police said prima facie Ganore&#8217;s son, who is missing since last night, appears to be the prime suspect in the case. His mobile phone was recovered from the house.The woman was allegedly first murdered by her son who slit her throat. The son then used the blood of her mother to script a message on the floor of the room.&#8220;I am tired of her. Catch and hang me,&#8221; his note said.Sources in Mumbai police said that Ganore&#8217;s son Siddhant was very intelligent student. He scored over 90 per cent in his boards exams. However, lately he was not so interested in studies and his mother used to poke him regularly for that. The son did not even have friends in the locality. He was also not given permission to use Facebook and WhatsApp.&nbsp;The Mumbai Police and crime branch are doing parallel investigations. The cops have got some lead in the case and are hopeful of arresting the accused soon.Investigating officers told India Today that after murdering his mother and writing the note in blood, the accused son went to the bathroom and took a shower. He later left the house with Rs 2 lakh in cash.The woman&#8217;s body was sent to the hospital for post-mortem and later taken to Nashik for final rites. The Vakola police has registered a murder case and is investigating the matter from all possible angles.