I hope this finds you well. Kindly see below statement for your consideration. This is in response to the Twitter screenshot that has been doing the rounds on social media platforms.MTN distances itself from parody Twitter accountMTN has noted a parody social media account that masquerades as an official MTN twitter account (see attached). The reported response from this account to an MTN customer, which MTN regards as insensitive was not sanctioned by MTN. We urge our customers to disregard this Twitter handle as it is not an official MTN Twitter handle but a parody account that was opened and shut down in 2016.Approximately six parody accounts purporting to be MTN Twitter handles have been opened since 2013. Twitter has suspended some of these accounts while others became inactive after being discovered.MTN has contacted the customers that have received feedback from these accounts and advised of that fact.Kind Regards,Bridget Bhengu[cid:image001.jpg@01D2D2F1.00B85F40]&lt;http://www.mtn.com/&gt;Senior Manager : Public Relations &amp; Internal CommunicationsTel: 083 212 1964Bridget.Bhengu@mtn.com[cid:image002.jpg@01D2D48C.9594C2B0]&#8220;This email is confidential. If you have received it in error, you are on notice of its status. Please notify us immediately by reply email and then delete this message from your system. Please do not copy it or use it for any purpose, or disclose its contents to any other person as to do so could be a breach of confidentiality. Thank you for your co-operation. &#8221;&#8220;The information contained in this message is intended solely for the individual to whom it is specifically and originally addressed. This message and its contents may contain confidential or privileged information from MTN Group. If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any disclosure or distribution, is strictly prohibited. If you receive this email in error, please notify MTN Group immediately and delete it. MTN Group does not accept any liability or responsibility if action is taken in reliance on the contents of this information . Note that all personal emails are not authorized by MTN Group. &#8220;