Lightstone property has released a report on the effect of crime on sustainable economic activity in South Africa including new data on the country s vehicle crime hotspots.According to the group, the study is based on a combination of the annual statistics released by the SAPS and more suburb-specific data collected by Lightstone itself over the course of the 2015/2016 financial year. SAPS provides statistics about crimes that were reported in all police stations during the preceding financial year, said the report. Although not all crimes are reported, these statistics can still provide potential home buyers and renters a good indication of the relative safety and crime trends of areas when searching for their next home. Lightstone s vehicle crime data includes all reported incidents of carjacking, theft of vehicle and theft from a vehicle.Unsurprisingly, Gauteng features prominently on the list of vehicle crime hotspots with the three highest rates recorded in the province.Pretoria Central had the highest recorded number of vehicle crime cases with 1,081 reported incidents, followed closely by the nearby suburb of Sunnyside with 964 reported incidents. Johannesburg Central (845) as well as Khayelitsha in the Western Cape (810) also prominently on the list. An exploration of the reported residential and vehicle crime statistics reveals that while overall reported crime rates have dropped, the rates are still alarmingly high, said the report. Provinces that feature the most are the Western Cape, Gauteng and Kwazulu-Natal. In these provinces, suburbs in the metropolis and city are affected the most. This is not surprising as these areas are generally occupied by the economically active. In the absence of decent public transport systems, the high residential crime rates in the metropolitan areas combined with high vehicle related crime rates in the major business districts might alienate some businesses and potentially pose a serious threat to sustainable economic activity in these areas. Late in 2016, The National Hijack Prevention Academy late compiled a list of the hijacking hotspots across South Africa s major metros. This includes combined statistics from the SAPS and the Academy itself.JohannesburgPretoria Cape TownDurban&nbsp;There are areas where smash and grab activity has been highlighted by the SAPS, eBlockwatch and other local community watch groups in the past 18 months:JohannesburgPretoriaDurbanCape Town