The Acting National Head of the Hawks, Lieutenant General Yolisa Matakata has congratulated the Richards Bay Serious Organised Crime Unit for the outstanding detective work which resulted in the sentencing of the murderers of Warrant Officer Niren Ramsaroop (40). The judgment was handed down on Friday, 26 May 2017 at the Durban High Court where Thuthukani Mbonambi (43) and Senzo Ndlovu (32) were sentenced to life imprisonment each. Their accomplices, Nhlakanipho Zulu (28), a bank teller and Sibusiso Mthabela (25) were both sentenced to 20 years imprisonment respectively. On 14 November 2015, Warrant Officer Ramsaroop was on patrol at Empangeni town centre with colleagues, when three women approached them. They reported that they had been robbed of a bag containing R110 000.00 in cash. The women claimed that they had withdrawn stokvel money from a local bank and were accosted by the accused shortly after leaving the bank. Ramsaroop spotted Mbonambi and managed to grab hold of him. Mbonambi pulled out a gun and shot Ramsaroop in the chest but he was able to return fire and shot him in the leg. Mbonambi was arrested on the spot. A 7.65mm pistol, with its serial number erased, was recovered at the scene. The other accused managed to escape with a bag containing cash. Following the unfortunate incident, the case was referred to the Richards Bay Hawks Serious Organised Crime Unit. Investigations further led to the arrest of Ndlovu who was with Mbonambi during the shooting whilst Mthabela and Zulu were linked after they were found to have been accomplices to the crime. Besides the firearm that was used to kill Warrant Officer Ramsaroop, another unlicensed handgun and almost R30 000 of the stolen money were seized. I want to commend the contribution of everyone in the justice system for collaborating and ensuring that the perpetrators of this heinous crime are in jail. These sentences augurs very well for the Hawks and all our partners that through dedication and relentless pursuit of the case, resulted in these life sentences. I congratulate the entire team and urge them to continue to do more, said General Matakata. Lieutenant General Matakata reiterated her commitment to fighting serious crime saying the Hawks will continue to foster partnerships and a multi-disciplinary approach that will benefit all South Africans.