The United Democratic Movement (UDM) party is saddened by the on-going KZN taxi wars which have continued to claim the lives of innocent South Africans. It emerged today that the newly-elected Dolphin Coast Taxi Association chairperson Robert Zitty Stephen was gunned down on Monday night.Confirming the killing of Zitty, SAPS Colonel Thembeka Mbhele related that Zitty was in his car outside his mother s home at the Etete area when he was shot by men in a blue Ford sedan. He sustained gunshot wounds on the back, shoulder and hand, and was certified dead at the scene, Colonel Mbhele said. Adding that the motive for the killing is unknown, the Colonel added that a case of murder was opened at Umhlali police station for investigation. Speaking, Sunshine Mthiyane the spokesperson of Dolphin Coast Taxi Association said: We are not sure what happened. He was a good guy, never had enemies we are working fine with all associations. We are not fighting with any associations at the moment. Zitty was a good guy. He used to transport children to school, Mthiyana wailed. Stressing that the KZN taxi wars have long gotten out of hand, UDM specified that it s uncool nothing is being done to manage the wars which have been going on for some time. Innocent people are being killed! Taxi operators, taxi associations and security agencies must find ways to resolve these problems of routes.The situation is not acceptable. The recent shootouts at Nongoma and Mbumbulu claimed lives of four passengers plus two drivers respectively, UDM stated. Check Out Mitchells Plain Most Wanted Suspects: Get A Handsome Reward For These Guys With that, the party called on the Minister of Police, Fikile Mbalula and the MEC for Safety and Security in KZN, Mxolisi Kaunda to do all in their power to stop the carnage. The MEC must also come clean and take the nation into his confidence about what he together with his department have done to address the backlog issuing route permits. Enough is enough, UDM charged.Read more: https://buzzsouthafrica.com/kzn-taxi-wars/