I am ashamed to be black and a man in South Africa: I was raised in a family of women only. I am the eldest of four children in my family. My whole life view was predominantly shaped by women. Infect, I wore earrings until I started primary school because it looked odd in the house that I was the only one not wearing earrings.Phenomenal women have been central to my life and have shaped the way I view and see the world. These are women who have protected me throughout my life, ensuring that I become a man I am today. Here is the thing: We black South African men, what kind of men are we? We rape our children who are 9 months of age (the story of Tshepang), we rape and disembow our young girls (Anele Boyseen 17 years), we high-jack our women and drag and kill our most vulnerable members of our society, our children (Teagrin Morris-4 year Old).We break into our mothers and grand-mothers houses rape, beat them and Kill them (Hester Marie Koch 62, was raped and murdered by blacks after helping one of them give birth and inviting them to stay at the farm she lived on with her husband Arnold Schultz). What kind of men are we?, when we fail to protect our women and children instead we feast on them.Our women cannot take a walk in the street after six in the evening, because they are scared of us, they cannot take a walk on the beach in the evening because they are afraid of us. Our sisters freedom of movement is limited by their fear of being a victim of our vicious acts. Our Toddlers are afraid of us because we touch their private parts when we are alone with them, breaking their innocence and scarring them for life.What kind of men are we?, when we corrective-rape our sisters who happen to prefer a different sexual orientation?. When we commit these crimes, most us say, only a few of us do those things. I am ashamed that I am part of many who continue to fail to stop the few committing these acts in our name. I am ashamed because as part of many I have failed Tshepang, Teagrin, Annele and many others whose names never made TV and radio news.I am ashamed that I am part of black men that have turned our society, our women and our children. I am ashamed to be part of black men that forgets quickly once the cameras are turned off about the safety of our women and children . Today, I can only truly apologise to our Grand- mothers, our mothers, our aunts, our nieces, our children for causing them so much pain. I do so without any reservation. As for my fellow black South African men, what kind of men are we?. We should all be ashamed to be black and men in South Africa!!!! We Must change our ways and Soon!!!Writer: Moeketsi Mosola